As with Evolutionary Computation, the field of Ant Colony Optimization lies at the intersect of computer science and biology. It is a paradigm for designing meta heuristic algorithms for combinatorial optimization problems. The essential trait of ACO algorithms is the combination of a priori information about the structure of a promising solution with posterior information about the structure of previously obtained good solutions.Meta heuristic   algorithms are algorithms which, in order to escape from local optima, drive some basic heuristic: either a constructive heuristic starting from a null solution and adding elements to build a good complete one, or a local search heuristic starting from a complete solution and iteratively modifying some of its elements in order to achieve a better one. The metaheuristic part permits the low level heuristic to obtain solutions better than those it could have achieved alone, even if iterated.The particular way of defining components and associated probabilities is problem-specific, and can be designed in different ways, facing a trade-off between the specificity of the information used for the conditioning and the number of solutions which need to be constructed before effectively biasing the probability distribution to favour the emergence of good solutions. Different applications have favoured either the use of conditioning at the level of decision variables, thus requiring a huge number of iterations before getting a precise distribution, or the computational efficiency, thus using very coarse conditioning information.Ant colonies, and more generally social insect societies, are distributed systems that, in spite of the simplicity of their individuals, present a highly structured social organization. As a result of this organization, ant colonies can accomplish complex tasks that in some cases far exceed the individual capabilities of a single ant. The field of ant algorithms studies models derived from the observation of real ants’ behaviour, and uses these models as a source of inspiration for the design of novel algorithms for the solution of optimization and distributed control problems.The main idea is that the self-organizing principles which allow the highly coordinated behaviour of real ants can be exploited to coordinate populations of artificial agents that collaborate to solve computational problems. Several different aspects of the behaviour of ant colonies have inspired different kinds of ant algorithms. Examples are foraging, division of labour, brood sorting, and cooperative transport. In all these examples, ants coordinate their activities via stigmergy, a form of indirect communication mediated by modifications of the environment. For example, a foraging ant deposits a chemical on the ground which increases the probability that other ants will follow the same path. The visual perceptive faculty of many ant species is only rudimentarily developed and there are ant species that are completely blind. In fact, an important insight of early research on ants’ behaviour was that most of the communication among individuals, or between individuals and the environment, is based on the use of chemicals produced by the ants. These chemicals are called pheromones.Particularly important for the social life of some ant species is the trail pheromone. Trail pheromone is a specific type of pheromone that some ant species, use for marking paths on the ground, for example, paths from food sources to the nest. By sensing pheromone trails foragers can follow the path to food discovered by other ants. This collective trail-laying and trail-following behaviour whereby an ant is influenced by a chemical trail left by other ants is the inspiring source of ACO.
